blog-content/session-replay-performance.md, before:

---
title: An open-source session replay benchmark
createdAt: 2023-10-17T12:00:00Z
readingTime: 14
authorFirstName: Abhishek
authorLastName: More
authorTitle: Software Engineer
authorTwitter: ''
authorLinkedIn: 'https://www.linkedin.com/in/abhishek-more-linked/'
authorGithub: 'https://github.com/Abhishek-More'
authorWebsite: 'https://abhishekmore.com'
authorPFP: 'https://tamuhack.org/static/th-2022/headshots/webp/abhishek.webp'
tags: Highlight Engineering
metaTitle: The Overhead of Session Replay 
---

At highlight.io, our first product was an open-source session replay tool built on [rrweb](https://github.com/rrweb-io/rrweb). Session Replay enables our customers to replay user sessions to analyze performance regressions and understand how users interact with a site.

Despite the benefits, as our customer base grew, more and more teams asked about the performance implications of using this technology on their site. After all, additional computation must happen to record exactly what is shown in the browser. In this post, we'll discuss the overhead of session replay with respect to resource consumption and interaction latency in several scenarios.

It is important to note that we did not measure Web Vitals, as these metrics can easily be manipulated by changing when javascript is executed on the client. Instead, we focused on metrics that affect the browser while session replay records data. If you’re interested in trying out the experiment detailed below or want to learn more about how it works, you can find it [here](https://github.com/highlight/session-replay-performance-benchmark).

## The Setup

To test session replay against a realistic web application, we created two applications that go hand in hand: A simple [React application](https://github.com/highlight/session-replay-performance-benchmark/tree/main/replay-perf-app) and a [Node.JS application](https://github.com/highlight/session-replay-performance-benchmark/tree/main/replay-perf-puppet) which automates and profiles interactions.

The React application accepts URL parameters which determine the number of elements to render in a list, with an optional parameter to enable session replay. When enabled, we would start [rrweb recording](https://github.com/rrweb-io/rrweb), the open-source session replay library adopted by companies such as Highlight, PostHog and Datadog, to produce the session events needed to replay the session.

```
import { record } from ‘rrweb’;
// sets up the HTML DOM mutation observers and starts the session recording
record({
  // …
  emit(event) {
    events.push(event);
   },
});
```

The second is a Node.js program that uses [Puppeteer](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer) to control this react application and collect telemetry data. Through Node.js, we were able to access Chrome performance traces and collect the data with Puppeteer. Specifically, we collected heap usage, CPU usage, and the time taken for each incremental addition.

```
  const { timestamp, activeTime, heapUsed, duration} = processMetrics(
    await cdp.send("Performance.getMetrics")
  );
```

The experiment was performed on an EC2 instance (t4g.xlarge) running Ubuntu 22.04.03 LTS with a 4-core CPU and 16 GB of RAM. We ran three trials:

* To measure interaction duration, we tracked time from insert beginning to end via the `window.performance.now()` API. This metric shows how long it takes the web app to make a change in the UI. We want this value low to keep the rendering looking smooth.
* To measure heap memory usage, we used puppeteer’s performance API which tracks the heap usage of the underlying chromium process. 
* To measure CPU usage, we compared active computation time vs. total time to have an estimate of JS loop execution. A large amount of time spent in active computation would mean that not much is available towards other important JS execution, which could result in frame drop and render stutter.

By measuring duration, we wanted to measure the Interaction to Next Paint (INP) time, which tests the responsiveness of an application. According to [Google Chrome Developers](https://web.dev/inp/), an INP of under 200 milliseconds demonstrates a reliably responsive page.

The heap and CPU usage metrics depend on the user's hardware. An increase in usage is not always a bad thing, but it helps to see how session replay will affect resource consumption.

## Results

### Test 1

In this test, there were 250 additions to a list, with an addition of 100 items each. On average, using session replay **added 0.017 seconds** to the time taken for each addition. Despite this, the INP remains much less than 200 ms, demonstrating that session replay maintains “snappiness” on a regular web application.

As more elements are added, the memory consumption difference with session replay increases. On average, there is a **6 MB increase** in memory usage when using session replay. Session replay tools often optimize the memory usage. For example, Highlight buffers a [short interval of events](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/blob/30a62edab25c909f265ac9be202797241b198874/sdk/client/src/index.tsx#L135C4-L135C4) in memory before sending them to a web worker. The web worker [offloads serialization and compression](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/blob/30a62edab25c909f265ac9be202797241b198874/sdk/client/src/index.tsx#L1355-L1370) of the payload to avoid blocking the main javascript thread with the compute-intensive operations.

For the CPU usage, we compared the active times for enabled/disabled session replay against the total time of the enabled session replay run. For a given time, we wanted to see how more the CPU is active for each run. In this test, enabling session replay yielded an average increase of **21% more usage** of the total time.

![time100](/images/blog/session-replay-perf/time100.svg)

![heap100](/images/blog/session-replay-perf/heap100.svg)

![cpu100](/images/blog/session-replay-perf/cpu100.svg)

### Test 2

In this test, there were 250 additions to a list, with an addition of 500 items each. On average, using session replay **added 0.07 seconds** to the time taken for each addition. Utilizing the 200 ms cutoff from before, we can see that enabling session replay maintains responsiveness until the 200th addition. More importantly, we can confirm that enabling session replay increases the duration of a task by a small constant amount. For this test, the addition is only 3.5% of the responsiveness window of 200 ms. 

On average, there is a **60 MB increase** in memory usage when using session replay, and for the CPU usage, enabling session replay yielded an average increase of **25% more usage** of the total time. Again, these numbers are not necessarily negative and they could have different effects on various hardware.

![time500](/images/blog/session-replay-perf/time500.svg)

![heap500](/images/blog/session-replay-perf/heap500.svg)

![cpu500](/images/blog/session-replay-perf/cpu500.svg)

## Conclusion

From the above data, while there is a difference in metrics when enabling session replay, we’ve noticed that there isn’t a very large hit to user experience, even on an extreme web app which renders hundreds of components at a time.

You may wonder how Session Replay can be so efficient. The secret lies in the optimal implementation in modern browsers which do the hard work of efficiently calculating how the DOM changes. Using the [HTML Mutation Observer API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MutationObserver) to set up a callback doesn’t add much overhead to your javascript runtime; the only complicated bit is serializing the modified DOM nodes into a format that can be replayed.

One feature we wish to get to is profiling the inner workings of the Mutation Observer API itself to break down which parts of session replay (in rrweb specifically) actually cause the overhead we see. We’ve published this experiment [on Github](https://github.com/highlight/session-replay-performance-benchmark) and we encourage you to run it yourself and share benchmarks on your respective devices. We’d love to see folks contribute as well!

Commit message:

Small tweaks to session replay post (#6921)
## Summary

Small tweaks to session replay post
<!--
Ideally, there is an attached GitHub issue that will describe the "why".

If relevant, use this section to call out any additional information
you'd like to _highlight_ to the reviewer.
-->

## How did you test this change?

clicktest
<!--
Frontend - Leave a screencast or a screenshot to visually describe the
changes.
-->

## Are there any deployment considerations?
n/a
<!--
 Backend - Do we need to consider migrations or backfilling data?
-->

## Does this work require review from our design team?
n/a

<!--
 Request review from julian-highlight / our design team 
-->

blog-content/session-replay-performance.md, after:

---
title: An open-source session replay benchmark
createdAt: 2023-10-17T12:00:00Z
readingTime: 14
authorFirstName: Abhishek
authorLastName: More
authorTitle: Software Engineer
authorTwitter: ''
authorLinkedIn: 'https://www.linkedin.com/in/abhishek-more-linked/'
authorGithub: 'https://github.com/Abhishek-More'
authorWebsite: 'https://abhishekmore.com'
authorPFP: 'https://tamuhack.org/static/th-2022/headshots/webp/abhishek.webp'
tags: Highlight Engineering
metaTitle: An open-source session replay benchmark
---

At [highlight.io](https://highlight.io), our first product was an open-source session replay tool built on [rrweb](https://github.com/rrweb-io/rrweb). Session Replay enables our customers to replay user sessions to analyze performance regressions and understand how users interact with a site.

Despite the benefits, as our customer base grew, more and more teams asked about the performance implications of using this technology on their site. After all, additional computation must happen to record exactly what is shown in the browser. In this post, we'll discuss the overhead of session replay with respect to resource consumption and interaction latency in several scenarios.

It is important to note that we did not measure Web Vitals, as these metrics can easily be manipulated by changing when javascript is executed on the client. Instead, we focused on metrics that affect the browser WHILE session replay records data. If you’re interested in reproducing the experiment detailed below or want to learn more about how it works, you can find it [here](https://github.com/highlight/session-replay-performance-benchmark).

## The Setup

To test session replay against a realistic web application, we created two applications that go hand in hand: A simple [React application](https://github.com/highlight/session-replay-performance-benchmark/tree/main/replay-perf-app) and a [Node.JS application](https://github.com/highlight/session-replay-performance-benchmark/tree/main/replay-perf-puppet) which automates and profiles interactions.

The React application accepts URL parameters which determine the number of elements to render in a list, with an optional parameter to enable session replay. When enabled, we would start recording using [rrweb](https://github.com/rrweb-io/rrweb) (the open-source library used by several companies, [Highlight](https://highlight.io) included).

```
import { record } from ‘rrweb’;
// sets up the HTML DOM mutation observers and starts the session recording
record({
  // …
  emit(event) {
    events.push(event);
   },
});
```

The second is a Node.js program that uses [Puppeteer](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer) to control this react application and collect telemetry data. Through Node.js, we were able to access Chrome performance traces and collect the data with Puppeteer. Specifically, we collected heap usage, CPU usage, and the time taken for each incremental addition.

```
  const { timestamp, activeTime, heapUsed, duration} = processMetrics(
    await cdp.send("Performance.getMetrics")
  );
```

The experiment was performed on an EC2 instance (t4g.xlarge) running Ubuntu 22.04.03 LTS with a 4-core CPU and 16 GB of RAM. We ran three trials:

* To measure interaction duration, we tracked time from insert beginning to end via the `window.performance.now()` API. This metric shows how long it takes the web app to make a change in the UI. We want this value low to keep the rendering looking smooth.
* To measure heap memory usage, we used puppeteer’s performance API which tracks the heap usage of the underlying chromium process. 
* To measure CPU usage, we compared active computation time vs. total time to have an estimate of JS loop execution. A large amount of time spent in active computation would mean that not much is available towards other important JS execution, which could result in frame drop and render stutter.

By measuring duration, we wanted to measure the Interaction to Next Paint (INP) time, which tests the responsiveness of an application. According to [Google Chrome Developers](https://web.dev/inp/), an INP of under 200 milliseconds demonstrates a reliably responsive page.

The heap and CPU usage metrics depend on the user's hardware. An increase in usage is not always a bad thing, but it helps to see how session replay will affect resource consumption.

## Results

### Test 1

In this test, there were 250 additions to a list, with an addition of 100 items each. On average, using session replay **added 0.017 seconds** to the time taken for each addition. Despite this, the INP remains much less than 200 ms, demonstrating that session replay maintains “snappiness” on a regular web application.

As more elements are added, the memory consumption difference with session replay increases. On average, there is a **6 MB increase** in memory usage when using session replay. Session replay tools often optimize the memory usage. For example, Highlight buffers a [short interval of events](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/blob/30a62edab25c909f265ac9be202797241b198874/sdk/client/src/index.tsx#L135C4-L135C4) in memory before sending them to a web worker. The web worker [offloads serialization and compression](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/blob/30a62edab25c909f265ac9be202797241b198874/sdk/client/src/index.tsx#L1355-L1370) of the payload to avoid blocking the main javascript thread with the compute-intensive operations.

For the CPU usage, we compared the active times for enabled/disabled session replay against the total time of the enabled session replay run. For a given time, we wanted to see how more the CPU is active for each run. In this test, enabling session replay yielded an average increase of **21% more usage** of the total time.

![time100](/images/blog/session-replay-perf/time100.svg)

![heap100](/images/blog/session-replay-perf/heap100.svg)

![cpu100](/images/blog/session-replay-perf/cpu100.svg)

### Test 2

In this test, there were 250 additions to a list, with an addition of 500 items each. On average, using session replay **added 0.07 seconds** to the time taken for each addition. Utilizing the 200 ms cutoff from before, we can see that enabling session replay maintains responsiveness until the 200th addition. More importantly, we can confirm that enabling session replay increases the duration of a task by a small constant amount. For this test, the addition is only 3.5% of the responsiveness window of 200 ms. 

On average, there is a **60 MB increase** in memory usage when using session replay, and for the CPU usage, enabling session replay yielded an average increase of **25% more usage** of the total time. Again, these numbers are not necessarily negative and they could have different effects on various hardware.

![time500](/images/blog/session-replay-perf/time500.svg)

![heap500](/images/blog/session-replay-perf/heap500.svg)

![cpu500](/images/blog/session-replay-perf/cpu500.svg)

## Conclusion

From the above data, while there is a difference in metrics when enabling session replay, we’ve noticed that there isn’t a very large hit to user experience, even on an extreme web app which renders hundreds of components at a time.

You may wonder how Session Replay can be so efficient. The secret lies in the optimal implementation in modern browsers which do the hard work of efficiently calculating how the DOM changes. Using the [HTML Mutation Observer API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MutationObserver) to set up a callback doesn’t add much overhead to your javascript runtime; the only complicated bit is serializing the modified DOM nodes into a format that can be replayed.

One feature we wish to get to is profiling the inner workings of the Mutation Observer API itself to break down which parts of session replay (in rrweb specifically) actually cause the overhead we see. We’ve published this experiment [on Github](https://github.com/highlight/session-replay-performance-benchmark) and we encourage you to run it yourself and share benchmarks on your respective devices. We’d love to see folks contribute as well!
