backend/vercel/README.md, before:

## Testing locally

Start ngrok: `ngrok http https://localhost:8082`

Grab the generated URL, example: `https://c0fd-75-166-97-48.ngrok-free.app`

Modify the projectID check in `vercel.HandleLog`

```diff
-       projectVerboseID := r.Header.Get(LogDrainProjectHeader)
-       projectID, err := model2.FromVerboseID(projectVerboseID)
-       if err != nil {
-               log.WithContext(r.Context()).WithError(err).WithField("projectVerboseID", projectVerboseID).Error("failed to parse highlight project id from vercel request")
-               http.Error(w, err.Error(), http.StatusBadRequest)
-               return
-       }
+       // projectVerboseID := r.Header.Get(LogDrainProjectHeader)
+       // projectID, err := model2.FromVerboseID(projectVerboseID)
+       // if err != nil {
+       //      log.WithContext(r.Context()).WithError(err).WithField("projectVerboseID", projectVerboseID).Error("failed to parse highlight project id from
 vercel request")
+       //      http.Error(w, err.Error(), http.StatusBadRequest)
+       //      return
+       // }
+       projectID := 3
```


Set up a log drain using the following config

![Screenshot 2023-08-10 at 1 06 16 PM](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/assets/58678/cf1d18ea-257e-414c-85fc-bf3e46a242c3)

Click "Test Log Drain"

Wait about a minute for the logs to go through the OTEL pipeline

Observe logs in app with the start date set to 2022 (Vercel hardcodes the timestamp to something really old using Test Log Drain)

![Screenshot 2023-08-10 at 1 07 55 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58678/259855002-39529705-c85d-4187-90c5-710171665807.png)

Commit message:

Add Tunnelmole as an open source local testing option (#7205)
This PR
adds [Tunnelmole](https://github.com/robbie-cahill/tunnelmole-client) as
an open source local testing option.

Tunnelmole is a FOSS tunneling solution with a growing community. It
works out of the box and can be optionally self hosted with
the [Tunnelmole
Service](https://github.com/robbie-cahill/tunnelmole-service). Both the
client and service are open source.

Example:
```
➜  ~ tmole 8000
http://bvdo5f-ip-49-183-170-144.tunnelmole.net is forwarding to localhost:8000
https://bvdo5f-ip-49-183-170-144.tunnelmole.net is forwarding to localhost:8000
```

backend/vercel/README.md, after:

## Testing locally

Use either [Tunnelmole](https://github.com/robbie-cahill/tunnelmole-client), an open source tunneling tool, or ngrok, a popular closed source tunnelling tool, to start your local server.

#### With Tunnelmole

Install Tunnelmole with one of the following options:
- NPM:  `npm install -g tunnelmole`
- Linux: `curl -s https://tunnelmole.com/sh/install-linux.sh | sudo bash`
- Mac:  `curl -s https://tunnelmole.com/sh/install-mac.sh --output install-mac.sh && sudo bash install-mac.sh`
- Windows: Install with NPM, or if you don't have NodeJS installed, download the `exe` file for Windows [here](https://tunnelmole.com/downloads/tmole.exe) and put it somewhere in your PATH.

Then, start Tunnelmole using:

`tmole 8082`

Grab the generated URL. For example:

`https://bvdo5f-ip-49-183-170-144.tunnelmole.net is forwarding to localhost:8082`

#### With ngrok

Start ngrok:

`ngrok http https://localhost:8082`

Grab the generated URL. For example:

`https://c0fd-75-166-97-48.ngrok-free.app`

## Modifications

Modify the projectID check in `vercel.HandleLog`

```diff
-       projectVerboseID := r.Header.Get(LogDrainProjectHeader)
-       projectID, err := model2.FromVerboseID(projectVerboseID)
-       if err != nil {
-               log.WithContext(r.Context()).WithError(err).WithField("projectVerboseID", projectVerboseID).Error("failed to parse highlight project id from vercel request")
-               http.Error(w, err.Error(), http.StatusBadRequest)
-               return
-       }
+       // projectVerboseID := r.Header.Get(LogDrainProjectHeader)
+       // projectID, err := model2.FromVerboseID(projectVerboseID)
+       // if err != nil {
+       //      log.WithContext(r.Context()).WithError(err).WithField("projectVerboseID", projectVerboseID).Error("failed to parse highlight project id from
 vercel request")
+       //      http.Error(w, err.Error(), http.StatusBadRequest)
+       //      return
+       // }
+       projectID := 3
```

## Setting up logs

Set up a log drain using the following config

![Screenshot 2023-08-10 at 1 06 16 PM](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/assets/58678/cf1d18ea-257e-414c-85fc-bf3e46a242c3)

Click "Test Log Drain"

Wait about a minute for the logs to go through the OTEL pipeline

Observe logs in app with the start date set to 2022 (Vercel hardcodes the timestamp to something really old using Test Log Drain)

![Screenshot 2023-08-10 at 1 07 55 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58678/259855002-39529705-c85d-4187-90c5-710171665807.png)
