sdk/highlightinc-highlight-datasource/README.md, before:

## The highlight.io data source for Grafana
The highlight.io data source plugin allows you to query, visualize, and alert on metrics derived from highlight.io traces, logs, errors, and sessions.

## Requirements
There are no requirements or dependencies to test the highlight.io data source in our demo environment.

To use this data source for your cloud-managed project, you must be an enterprise customer. If you're interested in getting this set up, please reach out to us at [support@highlight.io](mailto:support@highlight.io).

If you're already self-hosting highlight.io with a [hobby](https://www.highlight.io/docs/general/company/open-source/hosting/self-host-hobby) or [enterprise](https://www.highlight.io/docs/general/company/open-source/hosting/self-host-enterprise) deployment, you're good to go. If you'd like to set up your own self-hosted instance, you can follow the [getting started guide](https://www.highlight.io/docs/getting-started/self-host/self-hosted-hobby-guide).

## Getting Started with the highlight.io data source
### Configuration
![Configuration](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/highlight/highlight/main/sdk/highlightinc-highlight-datasource/src/img/configuration.png)

Once you have added a highlight.io data source, you can configure it with these fields:

|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|`Highlight Backend URL`|The URL used to query highlight.io data. If you are using cloud-managed highlight.io, set this to `https://pri.highlight.io`.|
|`OAuth Token URL`|The URL used to retrieve an OAuth access token. If you are using cloud-managed highlight.io, set this to `https://pri.highlight.io/oauth/token`.|
|`Project ID`|The highlight.io project ID, accessible from the URL slug of your highlight.io project, e.g. `https://app.highlight.io/{project_id}/`. If you want to query data from multiple projects, you can set up multiple data sources. To query the demo project, set this to 1344.|
|`Client ID`|If you are using cloud-managed highlight.io, set this to your OAuth client ID. If you are setting up the data source for the first time and need a client ID, reach out to us at [support@highlight.io](mailto:support@highlight.io). If you are self-hosting highlight.io or using the demo project, leave this blank.|
|`Client Secret`|If you are using cloud-managed highlight.io, set this to your OAuth client secret. If you are setting up the data source for the first time and need a client secret, reach out to us at [support@highlight.io](mailto:support@highlight.io). If you are self-hosting highlight.io or using the demo project, leave this blank.|

After entering these fields, clicking `Save & test` will run a health check to verify that the data source is able to query highlight.io data.

### Building your first query
The highlight.io data source query editor lets you interactively build a query to search and visualize your metrics from highlight.io traces, logs, errors, and sessions. To get started, add a new dashboard visualization or alert rule with the highlight.io data source.

The query editor is configurable with these fields:
|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|`Resource`|The highlight.io resource being queried for these metrics.|
|`Function`|The method used for aggregating data within a group and bucket, e.g. count, avg, p50. If the function operates on a metric, numeric fields from the linked project's data are shown as search suggestions.|
|`Filter`|A highlight.io filtering expression can be used to include only matching resources. Follows the search syntax shown [here](https://www.highlight.io/docs/general/product-features/general-features/search).|
|`Group by`|One or more categories to group the results by. Categorical fields from the linked project's data are shown as search suggestions.|
|`Limit N`|If one or more "group by" categories are selected, the result groups are limited to the top N.|
|`Limit by function`|If one or more "group by" categories are selected, this method is used to rank categories before returning the top N.|
|`Bucket by`|The dimension used for bucketing data. Supports bucketing by timestamp or no bucketing.|

## Documentation
If you have any further questions about highlight.io, you can visit our [docs](https://www.highlight.io/docs) or reach out to us at [support@highlight.io](mailto:support@highlight.io).

## Contributing
Looking to contribute to highlight.io? Get started [here](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/blob/main/docs-content/general/4_company/open-source/contributing/1_getting-started.md).

Commit message:

update plugin description and provisioned dashboard (#7803)
## Summary
- update provisioned dashboard based on updates to our query syntax and
new features
- update plugin description, readme, and add links to docs page
<!--
Ideally, there is an attached GitHub issue that will describe the "why".

If relevant, use this section to call out any additional information
you'd like to _highlight_ to the reviewer.
-->

## How did you test this change?
- tested provisioned dashboard locally
<!--
Frontend - Leave a screencast or a screenshot to visually describe the
changes.
-->

## Are there any deployment considerations?
- no, will build, sign, and update plugin submission after approval
<!--
 Backend - Do we need to consider migrations or backfilling data?
-->

## Does this work require review from our design team?
- no
<!--
 Request review from julian-highlight / our design team 
-->

sdk/highlightinc-highlight-datasource/README.md, after:

## The highlight.io data source for Grafana
The highlight.io data source plugin allows you to query, visualize, and alert on metrics derived from highlight.io traces, logs, errors, and sessions.

## Requirements
There are no requirements or dependencies to test the highlight.io data source in our demo environment.

To use this data source for your cloud-managed project, you must be an enterprise customer. If you're interested in getting this set up, please reach out to us at [support@highlight.io](mailto:support@highlight.io).

If you're already self-hosting highlight.io with a [hobby](https://www.highlight.io/docs/general/company/open-source/hosting/self-host-hobby) or [enterprise](https://www.highlight.io/docs/general/company/open-source/hosting/self-host-enterprise) deployment, you're good to go. If you'd like to set up your own self-hosted instance, you can follow the [getting started guide](https://www.highlight.io/docs/getting-started/self-host/self-hosted-hobby-guide).

## Getting Started with the highlight.io data source
### Configuration
![Configuration](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/highlight/highlight/main/sdk/highlightinc-highlight-datasource/src/img/configuration.png)

Once you have added a highlight.io data source, you can configure it with these fields:

|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|`Highlight Backend URL`|The URL used to query highlight.io data. If you are using cloud-managed highlight.io, set this to `https://pri.highlight.io`.|
|`OAuth Token URL`|The URL used to retrieve an OAuth access token. If you are using cloud-managed highlight.io, set this to `https://pri.highlight.io/oauth/token`.|
|`Project ID`|The highlight.io project ID, accessible from the URL slug of your highlight.io project, e.g. `https://app.highlight.io/{project_id}/`. If you want to query data from multiple projects, you can set up multiple data sources. To query the demo project, set this to 1344.|
|`Client ID`|If you are using cloud-managed highlight.io, set this to your OAuth client ID. If you are setting up the data source for the first time and need a client ID, reach out to us at [support@highlight.io](mailto:support@highlight.io). If you are self-hosting highlight.io or using the demo project, leave this blank.|
|`Client Secret`|If you are using cloud-managed highlight.io, set this to your OAuth client secret. If you are setting up the data source for the first time and need a client secret, reach out to us at [support@highlight.io](mailto:support@highlight.io). If you are self-hosting highlight.io or using the demo project, leave this blank.|

After entering these fields, clicking `Save & test` will run a health check to verify that the data source is able to query highlight.io data.

### Building your first query
The highlight.io data source query editor lets you interactively build a query to search and visualize your metrics from highlight.io traces, logs, errors, and sessions. To get started, add a new dashboard visualization or alert rule with the highlight.io data source.

The query editor is configurable with these fields:
|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|`Resource`|The highlight.io resource being queried for these metrics.|
|`Function`|The method used for aggregating data within a group and bucket, e.g. count, avg, p50. If the function operates on a metric, numeric fields from the linked project's data are shown as search suggestions.|
|`Filter`|A highlight.io filtering expression can be used to include only matching resources. Follows the search syntax shown [here](https://www.highlight.io/docs/general/product-features/general-features/search).|
|`Group by`|One or more categories to group the results by. Categorical fields from the linked project's data are shown as search suggestions.|
|`Limit N`|If one or more "group by" categories are selected, the result groups are limited to the top N.|
|`Limit by function`|If one or more "group by" categories are selected, this method is used to rank categories before returning the top N.|
|`Bucket by`|The dimension used for bucketing numeric data. Supports bucketing by timestamp, no bucketing, or a custom bucketing key for histogram visualizations.|
|`Buckets`|The number of buckets returned.|

## Documentation
The docs page for the highlight.io Grafana plugin is available [here](https://www.highlight.io/docs/general/integrations/grafana-integration/overview).

If you have any further questions about highlight.io, you can visit our [docs](https://www.highlight.io/docs) or reach out to us at [support@highlight.io](mailto:support@highlight.io).

## Contributing
Looking to contribute to highlight.io? Get started [here](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/blob/main/docs-content/general/4_company/open-source/contributing/1_getting-started.md).
