docs-content/getting-started/5_backend-logging/07_hosting/gcp.md, before:

---
title: Logging in GCP
slug: gcp
createdAt: 2022-03-28T20:31:15.000Z
updatedAt: 2022-04-06T20:22:54.000Z
---

Deploying your application or infrastructure in Google Cloud Platform (GCP)? Stream your logs to highlight to see everything in one place.

Check out the following examples of setting up logs streaming in these services:

## GCP Cloud Logging with Pub/Sub export

1. Setup the [Google Ops Agent](https://cloud.google.com/stackdriver/docs/solutions/agents/ops-agent) to send your infrastructure or compute logs to [Google Cloud Logging](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/query).

2. Create a [Cloud Pub/Sub topic](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudpubsub/topic/list) for exporting your Google cloud logs.
![](/images/gcp/step1.png)

3. Setup a [Log Router Sink](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/router) in Google Cloud Logging
![](/images/gcp/step2.png)

4. Setup a Pub/Sub Subscription to export to highlight.io over HTTPS. Set the delivery to Push on endpoint URL  https://pub.highlight.io/v1/logs/raw?project=YOUR_PROJECT_ID&service=backend-service
![](/images/gcp/step3.png)

At this point, your infrastructure / service logs should show up in [highlight](https://app.highlight.io/logs)!

Commit message:

support arbitrary structured json logs ingestion (#8585)
## Summary

* support arbitrary structured json logs ingestion from `/v1/logs/json`
* support ingesting log messages with no body but with attributes
* update gcp pub/sub example docs

## How did you test this change?

new unit testing
![Screenshot from 2024-05-15
12-34-10](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/assets/1351531/2b16892e-0eee-4f87-84cc-5f5bf3880e72)



## Are there any deployment considerations?

no

## Does this work require review from our design team?

no

docs-content/getting-started/5_backend-logging/07_hosting/gcp.md, after:

---
title: Logging in GCP
slug: gcp
createdAt: 2022-03-28T20:31:15.000Z
updatedAt: 2022-04-06T20:22:54.000Z
---

Deploying your application or infrastructure in Google Cloud Platform (GCP)? Stream your logs to highlight to see everything in one place.

Check out the following examples of setting up logs streaming in these services:

## GCP Cloud Logging with Pub/Sub export

1. Setup the [Google Ops Agent](https://cloud.google.com/stackdriver/docs/solutions/agents/ops-agent) to send your infrastructure or compute logs to [Google Cloud Logging](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/query).

2. Create a [Cloud Pub/Sub topic](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudpubsub/topic/list) for exporting your Google cloud logs.
![](/images/gcp/step1.png)

3. Setup a [Log Router Sink](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/router) in Google Cloud Logging
![](/images/gcp/step2.png)

4. Setup a Pub/Sub Subscription to export to highlight.io over HTTPS. Set the delivery type to `Push`. Set the endpoint URL depending on the structure of your logs. If your logs are structured as `JSON`, set the endpoint to https://pub.highlight.io/v1/logs/json?project=YOUR_PROJECT_ID&service=backend-service. Otherwise, for unstructured text logs, set the endpoint to  https://pub.highlight.io/v1/logs/raw?project=YOUR_PROJECT_ID&service=backend-service
![](/images/gcp/step3.png)

At this point, your infrastructure / service logs should show up in [highlight](https://app.highlight.io/logs)!
