docs-content/general/6_product-features/4_logging/log-search.md, before:

---
heading: Log Search Specification
title: Log Search
slug: log-search
createdAt: 2021-09-10T17:54:08.000Z
updatedAt: 2022-08-18T22:36:12.000Z
---

Logs are broken down into two discrete concepts: **messages** and **attributes**. Given the following log:

```
logger.info('Queried table', {
  table: 'users',
  query: 'hello',
}),
```

The log message is `Queried table` and the attributes are `table:users` and `query:hello`.

## Searching for logs

For general information on searching logs, check out our [Search docs](../../6_product-features/3_general-features/search.md).

### Message Search

To search for a log message, simply type the text of the message. Given the following log:

```
log.info("excluding session due to no user interaction events")
```

We can find this log by typing `excluding session due to no user interaction events`.

![](/images/log-search.png)

## Autoinjected attributes

By default, Highlight's SDKs will autoinject attributes to provide additional context as well as assisting in linking [sessions](../1_session-replay/) and [errors](../2_error-monitoring/) to their respective logs.

| Attribute        | Description                                        | Example                                                                                                                                             |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `code.filepath`  | File path emitting the log.                        | `/build/backend/worker/worker.go`                                                                                                                   |
| `code.function`  | Function emitting the log.                         | `github.com/highlight-run/highlight/backend/worker.(*Worker).Start.func3`                                                                           |
| `code.lineno`    | Line number of the file where the log was emitted. | `20`                                                                                                                                                |
| `host.name`      | Hostname                                           | `ip-172-31-5-211.us-east-2.compute.internal`                                                                                                        |
| `os.description` | Description of the operating system                | `Alpine Linux 3.17.2 (Linux ip-172-31-5-211.us-east-2.compute.internal 5.10.167-147.601.amzn2.aarch64 #1 SMP Tue Feb 14 21:50:23 UTC 2023 aarch64)` |
| `os.type`        | Type of operating system                           | `linux`                                                                                                                                             |
| `level`          | The log level                                      | `info`                                                                                                                                              |
| `message`        | The log message                                    | `public-graph graphql request failed`                                                                                                               |
| `span.id`        | Span id that contains this log                     | `528a54addf6f91cc`                                                                                                                                  |

Commit message:

Add clickhouse materialized views to add missing keys (#7529)
## Summary
A few keys were missing from the traces and logs search since they are
not added via attributes, and there were no materialized views to add
them to the correct tables.

Add materialized views to the following attributes so they show up in
search:
- Logs
  - environment
- Traces
  - environment
  - parent_span_id (add to default with no values)
  - secure_session_id (add to default with no values)

Remove high cardinality attributes from logs - span_id, trace_id,
secure_session_id, body (not used)

## How did you test this change?
1) View the logs and traces page
2) try searching by the keys above
- [ ] Keys are correctly suggested
- [ ] Values are correctly suggested

![Screenshot 2024-01-22 at 2 29
34 PM](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/assets/17744174/a6a1d52a-c1d0-424a-a9f4-c9f621ee3c41)

![Screenshot 2024-01-22 at 2 47
06 PM](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/assets/17744174/db382a1f-3fc5-43fa-bb8a-5a571f428d30)

## Are there any deployment considerations?
Watch out for too many table row scan errors

## Does this work require review from our design team?
N/A

docs-content/general/6_product-features/4_logging/log-search.md, after:

---
heading: Log Search Specification
title: Log Search
slug: log-search
createdAt: 2021-09-10T17:54:08.000Z
updatedAt: 2022-08-18T22:36:12.000Z
---

Logs are broken down into two discrete concepts: **messages** and **attributes**. Given the following log:

```
logger.info('Queried table', {
  table: 'users',
  query: 'hello',
}),
```

The log message is `Queried table` and the attributes are `table:users` and `query:hello`.

## Searching for logs

For general information on searching logs, check out our [Search docs](../../6_product-features/3_general-features/search.md).

### Message Search

To search for a log message, simply type the text of the message. Given the following log:

```
log.info("excluding session due to no user interaction events")
```

We can find this log by typing `excluding session due to no user interaction events`.

![](/images/log-search.png)

## Autoinjected attributes

By default, Highlight's SDKs will autoinject attributes to provide additional context as well as assisting in linking [sessions](../1_session-replay/) and [errors](../2_error-monitoring/) to their respective logs.

| Attribute        | Description                                        | Example                                                                                                                                             |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `code.filepath`  | File path emitting the log.                        | `/build/backend/worker/worker.go`                                                                                                                   |
| `code.function`  | Function emitting the log.                         | `github.com/highlight-run/highlight/backend/worker.(*Worker).Start.func3`                                                                           |
| `code.lineno`    | Line number of the file where the log was emitted. | `20`                                                                                                                                                |
| `environment`    | The environment specified in the SDK               | `production`                                                                                                                                        |
| `host.name`      | Hostname                                           | `ip-172-31-5-211.us-east-2.compute.internal`                                                                                                        |
| `level`          | The log level                                      | `info`                                                                                                                                              |
| `message`        | The log message                                    | `public-graph graphql request failed`                                                                                                               |
| `os.description` | Description of the operating system                | `Alpine Linux 3.17.2 (Linux ip-172-31-5-211.us-east-2.compute.internal 5.10.167-147.601.amzn2.aarch64 #1 SMP Tue Feb 14 21:50:23 UTC 2023 aarch64)` |
| `os.type`        | Type of operating system                           | `linux`                                                                                                                                             |
| `service_name`   | Name of the service specified in the SDK           | `private-graph`                                                                                                                                     |
| `service_version`| Version of the service specified in the SDK        | `e1845285cb360410aee05c61dd0cc57f85afe6da`                                                                                                          |
| `span.id`        | Span id that contains this log                     | `528a54addf6f91cc`                                                                                                                                  |
