docs-content/getting-started/3_client-sdk/7_replay-configuration/content-security-policy.md, before:

---
title: Content-Security-Policy
slug: content-security-policy
createdAt: 2022-03-01T00:39:25.000Z
updatedAt: 2022-03-01T01:08:28.000Z
---

```hint
You should keep reading this if your application runs in an environment that enforces content security policies.
```

`Content-Security-Policy` allows you to tell the browser what and how your page can interact with third-party scripts.

Here are the policies you'll need to set to use Highlight:

#### `script-src`: `https://static.highlight.io`
This policy is to allow downloading the Highlight runtime code for session recording and error monitoring.

#### `worker-src`: `blob: https://static.highlight.io`
This policy allows our script to create a web-worker which we use to serialize the recording data without affecting the performance of your application.

#### `connect-src`: `https://pub.highlight.io`
This policy is to allow connecting with Highlight servers to send recorded session data.

Your [CSP](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) definition may look something like this:

```html
<meta
  http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy"
  content="default-src 'self'; script-src 'self' https://static.highlight.io; worker-src: blob: https://static.highlight.io; connect-src https://pub.highlight.io;"
/>
```

Commit message:

support bundling client into firstload (#8058)
## Summary

Support bundling client into firstload to avoid ad blockers.
The dynamic import preserves the client / rrweb code as a separate lazy
loaded bundle
to avoid blocking the page load and to keep firstload loading quick.

## How did you test this change?

<img width="763" alt="Screenshot 2024-03-19 at 17 24 57"
src="https://github.com/highlight/highlight/assets/1351531/f7f98b07-2242-4672-b2d4-2aad41e4ccaf">
<img width="1794" alt="Screenshot 2024-03-19 at 17 27 03"
src="https://github.com/highlight/highlight/assets/1351531/d87f761a-1178-46b8-835f-ff26a18e757f">

## Are there any deployment considerations?

changeset

## Does this work require review from our design team?

no

---------

Co-authored-by: Lewis Liu <lewisl9029@users.noreply.github.com>

docs-content/getting-started/3_client-sdk/7_replay-configuration/content-security-policy.md, after:

---
title: Content-Security-Policy
slug: content-security-policy
createdAt: 2022-03-01T00:39:25.000Z
updatedAt: 2022-03-01T01:08:28.000Z
---

```hint
You should keep reading this if your application runs in an environment that enforces content security policies.
```

`Content-Security-Policy` allows you to tell the browser what and how your page can interact with third-party scripts.

Here are the policies you'll need to set to use Highlight:

#### `connect-src`: `https://pub.highlight.io`
This policy is to allow connecting with Highlight servers to send recorded session data.

Your [CSP](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) definition may look something like this:

```html
<meta
  http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy"
  content="default-src 'self'; connect-src https://pub.highlight.io;"
/>
```

```hint
highlight.run version 8.11 changes how we bundle the client so that we no longer require a `script-src` or `worker-src` definition. Make sure you are using the latest version of the SDK to use the above CSP policy.
```
