docs-content/general/6_product-features/3_general-features/search.md, before:

---
title: Search
slug: search
createdAt: 2023-01-16T09:00:00.000Z
updatedAt: 2023-01-16T09:00:00.000Z
---

## Basic Syntax

A search query is composed of one or more **expressions**. Each expression can be a comparison between a **key** and a **value**, or a logical combination of other expressions.

```
span_name=gorm.Query
```

You can also enter a seach value without a key to search on a default key. For logs, this would be the `message` and on traces it would be the `span_name`.

```
gorm.Query
```

Any custom attributes you send in logs and traces can be filters on as well.

```
user_id=42
```

## Keys and Values

Keys are identifiers, which can include any combination of alphanumeric characters, underscores (`_`), periods (`.`), dashes (`-`), and asterisks (`*`).

Values can be strings with any character. In order to use spaces or special characters you must enclose the string in double quotes (`"`).

### Wildcards

You can use `*` in values to match on part of a pattern.

* `span_name=gorm.*` matches all `span_name` values that start with `gorm.`
* `span_name=*.Query` matches all `span_name` values that end with `.Query`
* `span_name=*orm*` matches all values that contain `orm`

## Comparisons

Comparisons are made using **operators**. The following operators are supported:

* `=` - Equal to
* `!=` - Not equal to
* `<` - Less than
* `<=` - Less than or equal to
* `>` - Greater than
* `>=` - Greater than or equal to

## Logical Combinations

Expressions can be combined using the logical operators `AND`, `OR`, and `NOT`.

* `AND` - Both expressions must be true
* `OR` - At least one of the expressions must be true
* `NOT` - The following expression must be false

Note that there is an implicit `AND` between all filters unless you specify an `OR` directly. For example:

```
service_name=private-graph span_name=gorm.Query
```

This is equivalent to:

```
service_name=private-graph AND span_name=gorm.Query
```

## Grouping Expressions

Expressions can be grouped using parentheses `(` and `)`. For example:

```
(key1=value1 AND key2=value2) OR key3=value3
```

You can also use parentheses to group values in an expression:

```
service_name=(private-graph OR public-graph)
```

## Query Examples

Here are some examples of valid search queries:

* `service_name=private-graph`
* `service_name=public-graph AND span_name!=gorm.Query`
* `service_name=worker OR span_name=gorm.Query`
* `service_name!=private-graph`
* `(service_name=public-graph AND span_name=gorm.Query) OR duration>=100000`

## Search Segments

All of our search pages allow you to save a search and reuse it later. We call these **segments**. Create segments for common sets of filters you want to use across Highlight.

## More Reading

See the links below for more details on searching in specific parts of the product.

* [Logs Search](../../6_product-features/4_logging/log-search.md)
* [Traces Search](../../6_product-features/5_tracing/trace-search.md)

Commit message:

Add clickhouse materialized views to add missing keys (#7529)
## Summary
A few keys were missing from the traces and logs search since they are
not added via attributes, and there were no materialized views to add
them to the correct tables.

Add materialized views to the following attributes so they show up in
search:
- Logs
  - environment
- Traces
  - environment
  - parent_span_id (add to default with no values)
  - secure_session_id (add to default with no values)

Remove high cardinality attributes from logs - span_id, trace_id,
secure_session_id, body (not used)

## How did you test this change?
1) View the logs and traces page
2) try searching by the keys above
- [ ] Keys are correctly suggested
- [ ] Values are correctly suggested

![Screenshot 2024-01-22 at 2 29
34 PM](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/assets/17744174/a6a1d52a-c1d0-424a-a9f4-c9f621ee3c41)

![Screenshot 2024-01-22 at 2 47
06 PM](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/assets/17744174/db382a1f-3fc5-43fa-bb8a-5a571f428d30)

## Are there any deployment considerations?
Watch out for too many table row scan errors

## Does this work require review from our design team?
N/A

docs-content/general/6_product-features/3_general-features/search.md, after:

---
title: Search
slug: search
createdAt: 2023-01-16T09:00:00.000Z
updatedAt: 2023-01-16T09:00:00.000Z
---

## Basic Syntax

A search query is composed of one or more **expressions**. Each expression can be a comparison between a **key** and a **value**, or a logical combination of other expressions.

```
span_name=gorm.Query
```

You can also enter a seach value without a key to search on a default key. For logs, this would be the `message` and on traces it would be the `span_name`.

```
gorm.Query
```

Any custom attributes you send in logs and traces can be filters on as well.

```
user_id=42
```

## Keys and Values

Keys are identifiers, which can include any combination of alphanumeric characters, underscores (`_`), periods (`.`), dashes (`-`), and asterisks (`*`).

Values can be strings with any character. In order to use spaces or special characters you must enclose the string in double quotes (`"`).

### Wildcards

You can use `*` in values to match on part of a pattern.

* `span_name=gorm.*` matches all `span_name` values that start with `gorm.`
* `span_name=*.Query` matches all `span_name` values that end with `.Query`
* `span_name=*orm*` matches all values that contain `orm`

## Comparisons

Comparisons are made using **operators**. The following operators are supported:

* `=` - Equal to
* `!=` - Not equal to
* `<` - Less than
* `<=` - Less than or equal to
* `>` - Greater than
* `>=` - Greater than or equal to

### Exist & Does Not Exist

You can search if a key exists or does not exist with the `=` and `!=` operators. In traces, for example:

```
parent_span_id=""
```

will return all traces with no parent span (i.e. only root level traces). On the other hand:

```
secure_session_id!=""
```

will return all traces that have a secure session id (i.e. belong to a session).

## Logical Combinations

Expressions can be combined using the logical operators `AND`, `OR`, and `NOT`.

* `AND` - Both expressions must be true
* `OR` - At least one of the expressions must be true
* `NOT` - The following expression must be false

Note that there is an implicit `AND` between all filters unless you specify an `OR` directly. For example:

```
service_name=private-graph span_name=gorm.Query
```

This is equivalent to:

```
service_name=private-graph AND span_name=gorm.Query
```

## Grouping Expressions

Expressions can be grouped using parentheses `(` and `)`. For example:

```
(key1=value1 AND key2=value2) OR key3=value3
```

You can also use parentheses to group values in an expression:

```
service_name=(private-graph OR public-graph)
```

## Query Examples

Here are some examples of valid search queries:

* `service_name=private-graph`
* `service_name=public-graph AND span_name!=gorm.Query`
* `service_name=worker OR span_name=gorm.Query`
* `service_name!=private-graph`
* `(service_name=public-graph AND span_name=gorm.Query) OR duration>=100000`

## Search Segments

All of our search pages allow you to save a search and reuse it later. We call these **segments**. Create segments for common sets of filters you want to use across Highlight.

## More Reading

See the links below for more details on searching in specific parts of the product.

* [Logs Search](../../6_product-features/4_logging/log-search.md)
* [Traces Search](../../6_product-features/5_tracing/trace-search.md)
