docs-content/general/4_company/1_values.md, before:

---
title: Mission & Values
slug: values
createdAt: 2022-04-01T20:28:14.000Z
updatedAt: 2022-04-15T02:07:22.000Z
---

Our mission is to support developers (like you) to ship with confidence. We do this by giving you the tools you need to **uncover, resolve, and prevent** issues in your web app.

With everything we build, we maintain an unwavering promise to use open source technologies so that you and your team don't have a dependency on our hosted offerings. 

## We build in public.

We strive to build in public in every way we can. This means sharing our roadmap, product specs, and company strategy. We see this as giving you all the more reason to consider joining us in [building highlight](https://careers.highlight.run).

## We prioritize cohesion.

People may think that we're building multiple products (session replay, error monitoring, etc..) but we see it as one. Before we build anything new, we prioritize making it operate seemlessly with everything else e.g. see our [fullstack mapping guide](../../getting-started/2_frontend-backend-mapping.md).

## We build for today's developer.

If you're building software in today's ecosystem, you probably want to focus on building software. We challenge ourselves to build developer tooling that’s simple, straightforward but powerful if you'd like to dig deeper. highlight.io is built for developers that want to **develop**. Leave the monitoring stuff to us 👍.

## We execute quickly and fail fast.

Given that most of the things we build are zero to one, there's often no better way to learn than to build. It's hard to predict how something will scale or be interacted w/ without building something and getting early feedback. With this philosophy, however, its easy to ship low quality work, which is why we prefer to "cut scope, not quality".

## ABC: Always be chilling....

Though working at highlight.io can be fast-paced at times, we keep it chill...

![](/images/ohyeah.gif)

Commit message:

Update Philosophy / Values Docs (#5084)
## Summary
- minor edits on proxy docs
- as discussed with @et, restructures our values & philosophy docs. very
open to feedback.

<!--
Ideally, there is an attached GitHub issue that will describe the "why".

If relevant, use this section to call out any additional information
you'd like to _highlight_ to the reviewer.
-->

## How did you test this change?
clicktest
<!--
Frontend - Leave a screencast or a screenshot to visually describe the
changes.
-->

## Are there any deployment considerations?
n/a

<!--
 Backend - Do we need to consider migrations or backfilling data?
-->

---------

Co-authored-by: Vadim Korolik <vkorolik@gmail.com>

docs-content/general/4_company/1_values.md, after:

---
title: Values
slug: values
createdAt: 2022-04-01T20:28:14.000Z
updatedAt: 2022-04-15T02:07:22.000Z
---

## Overview

This doc acts as a reference for our values at highlight.io, which includes how we work and we build things. It acts a way for us to understand how we should operate and what the "startup mentality" means to us. If you'd like to learn more about our product philosophy (which is more related to our product) see [this doc](./product-philosophy.md).

## We build in public.

With everything we build, we maintain an unwavering promise to use open source technologies so that you and your team don't have a dependency on our hosted offerings. 

We strive to build in public in every way we can. This means sharing our roadmap, product specs, and company strategy. We see this as giving you all the more reason to consider joining us in [building highlight](https://careers.highlight.run).


## We execute quickly and fail fast.

Given that most of the things we build are zero to one, there's often no better way to learn than to build. It's hard to predict how something will scale or be interacted w/ without building something and getting early feedback. With this philosophy, however, it's easy to ship low quality work. To address this, we always prefer to "cut scope, not quality"; we build out a few, very polished modules rather than many half-baked ones.

## ABC: Always be chilling....

Though working at highlight.io can be fast-paced at times, we keep it chill. This means aking time for social events, taking time off, and learning about each other beyond just work. We're all humans, and we all have lives outside of work.

![](/images/ohyeah.gif)
