docs-content/general/4_company/open-source/hosting/3_self-host-enterprise.md, before:

---
title: Self-hosted [Enterprise]
slug: self-host-enterprise
createdAt: 2022-04-01T20:28:14.000Z
updatedAt: 2024-04-12T02:35:22.000Z
---

## Our Enterprise Self-hosted Deployment

<EnterpriseSelfHostCalendlyComponent prefix="Interested in deploying Highlight to your own VPC at a larger scale than the hobby deployment? Please contact us via"/>

### Self-hosted Enterprise Feature Set:

| Features                                                     | Hobby | Enterprise |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ----- | ---------- |
| Native Platform Integrations (Teams, Slack, Sendgrid, etc..) | ❌    | ✅         |
| Native Email Integrations (Sendgrid, SMTP, etc..)            | ❌    | ✅         |
| User Management Support (RBAC, SSO, SSL, etc..)              | ❌    | ✅         |
| HA Deploy & Persistent Storage                               | ❌    | ✅         |
| Custom Retention Policies                                    | ❌    | ✅         |
| Automatic Upgrades                                           | ❌    | ✅         |
| Availability Guarantees                                      | ❌    | ✅         |

## Pricing

<EnterpriseSelfHostCalendlyComponent prefix="Pricing for our self-hosted enterprise deployment starts at $3k / month. Contact us via " />

Commit message:

add doc on self hosted deployment options (#8454)
## Summary

Updates enterprise hosting doc.

## How did you test this change?

vercel
![Screenshot from 2024-05-03
08-45-13](https://github.com/highlight/highlight/assets/1351531/9ccec821-8b08-412b-81e9-173ea1337b25)


## Are there any deployment considerations?

no

## Does this work require review from our design team?

no

docs-content/general/4_company/open-source/hosting/3_self-host-enterprise.md, after:

---
title: Self-hosted [Enterprise]
slug: self-host-enterprise
createdAt: 2022-04-01T20:28:14.000Z
updatedAt: 2024-04-12T02:35:22.000Z
---

## Our Enterprise Self-hosted Deployment

<EnterpriseSelfHostCalendlyComponent prefix="Interested in deploying Highlight to your own VPC at a larger scale than the hobby deployment? Please contact us via"/>

### Self-hosted Enterprise Feature Set:

| Features                                                     | Hobby | Enterprise |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ----- | ---------- |
| Native Platform Integrations (Teams, Slack, Sendgrid, etc..) | ❌    | ✅         |
| Native Email Integrations (Sendgrid, SMTP, etc..)            | ❌    | ✅         |
| User Management Support (RBAC, SSO, SSL, etc..)              | ❌    | ✅         |
| HA Deploy & Persistent Storage                               | ❌    | ✅         |
| Custom Retention Policies                                    | ❌    | ✅         |
| Automatic Upgrades                                           | ❌    | ✅         |
| Availability Guarantees                                      | ❌    | ✅         |

### Self Hosted Deployment Options

We have multiple flexible options for running highlight on your own infrastructure. While the simplest
way to get going is our docker compose single deploy, we support complex deployments that provide better scalability and availability. 

- **Docker Compose**: Deploy Highlight on a single VM for a simpler deploy.
- **Kubernetes Helm Chart**: Deploy Highlight on your kubernetes cluster with our clustered HA Helm deploy.
- **CloudFormation / Terraform / Pulumi**: Deploy Highlight on your cloud provider of choice.

<EnterpriseSelfHostCalendlyComponent prefix="Schedule a technical comparison call via " />

## Pricing

<EnterpriseSelfHostCalendlyComponent prefix="Pricing for our self-hosted enterprise deployment starts at $3k / month. Contact us via " />
